# 2FA Bypass

|ID          |
|------------|
|GTRT-ATHN-02|

## Summary

Verification codes are usually read by the user from a physical device of some kind. Many high-security websites now provide users with a dedicated device for this purpose, such as the RSA token or keypad device that you might use to access your online banking or work laptop. In addition to being purpose-built for security, these dedicated devices also have the advantage of generating the verification code directly. It is also common for websites to use a dedicated mobile app, such as Google Authenticator, for the same reason.

On the other hand, some websites send verification codes to a user's mobile phone as a text message. While this is technically still verifying the factor of "something you have", it is open to abuse. Firstly, the code is being transmitted via SMS rather than being generated by the device itself. This creates the potential for the code to be intercepted. There is also a risk of SIM swapping, whereby an attacker fraudulently obtains a SIM card with the victim's phone number. The attacker would then receive all SMS messages sent to the victim, including the one containing their verification code.

## How to Test

At times, the implementation of two-factor authentication is flawed to the point where it can be bypassed entirely.

If the user is first prompted to enter a password, and then prompted to enter a verification code on a separate page, the user is effectively in a "logged in" state before they have entered the verification code. In this case, it is worth testing to see if you can directly skip to "logged-in only" pages after completing the first authentication step. Occasionally, you will find that a website doesn't actually check whether or not you completed the second step before loading the page.

### Flawed two-factor verification logic
Sometimes flawed logic in two-factor authentication means that after a user has completed the initial login step, the website doesn't adequately verify that the same user is completing the second step. They are then assigned a cookie that relates to their account, before being taken to the second step of the login process. In this case, an attacker could log in using their own credentials but then change the value of the account cookie to any arbitrary username when submitting the verification code.

### Brute-forcing 2FA verification codes
As with passwords, websites need to take steps to prevent brute-forcing of the 2FA verification code. This is especially important because the code is often a simple 4 or 6-digit number. Without adequate brute-force protection, cracking such a code is trivial.

Some websites attempt to prevent this by automatically logging a user out if they enter a certain number of incorrect verification codes. This is ineffective in practice because an advanced attacker can even automate this multi-step process by creating macros for Burp Intruder. The Turbo Intruder extension can also be used for this purpose.

## References

Application Development Security 1.1/S1(a) Manage logon session and access controls securely

https://portswigger.net/web-security/authentication/multi-factor
